Brief Introduction of Key Concepts:

What is a gnoll? 
A gnoll is a fantastical creature with characteristics of both humans and hyenas. Like other fantasy stuff, (goblins, elves etc.) the concept is vague and subject to interpretation. 

What is a Zakasi??
Remember those gnolls I was telling you about? These are, more or less, exactly the same thing. I have certain reservations about using material developed by other people, so this is my way of putting distance between a particular variant of the species and the famous Dungeons & Dragons monster. Incidentally, "zakasi" is just the gnollish word for "gnoll", within the confines of this game's internal universe.

At this point you can probably figure out the rest for yourself. 

##A Brief, Spoiler-Free Description of the Gnoll Raider Story:
###Preface:
Before I tell you this story, I feel that a disclaimer is in order. My work on gnoll raider is sort of a by-product of a much larger and more literary work that I will probably never publish. I came up with this as a way to get some experience before trying my hand at higher-stakes projects. If you've followed my web log, you might have caught me making references to in-universe people and places. Many of these come from established arcs in my unpublished body of work. As it stands, I am not entirely sure how much of this material I should use, so while this game stands on its own, be aware that not everything I say is guaranteed to be relevant. What I can say about gnoll raider is as follows:
###Background: A concise History of Umara and its inhabitants
Gnoll Raider takes place in a land called Umara, a region has been the scene of fierce contention for upwards of five hundred years. Its history is not well preserved, as its various conquerors have not been at pains to study the civilizations they eventually replaced. Roughly speaking, it is known that prior to the dissipation of the Azraku Empire, the region was the site of a large city, which despite its remoteness from civilization, grew immensely wealthy on account of its mining operations in the Red Mountains. five hundred years ago, this city was cut off from the outside world during the Azraku war of succession, and effectively vanished from sight, never to reappear, presumably pillaged by the Khurikash Clan. Like many other zakasi clans, the Khurikash had come down from the northern deserts in the aftermath of the War of Succession, picking off settlements weakened by the conflict and seizing depopulated lands. By the time the khurikash seized Umara, they had decided to settle down, and began exacting tribute and protection money from the remaining human tribes. Thus the khurikash had been dwelling in relative luxury for some time when the Taurash, themselves forced north by territorial struggles with the increasingly powerful Azanasha pride, first made contact with them. The Rakasha and Zakasi species both claim to be descended from a common ancestor, but like each other the less for it, and in any event, the taurash needed no legends to convince them that the khurikash were their enemies. Rallying the long-terrorized umara tribes, the Taurash successfully drove the khurikash into the Dismal Wastes, an arid region to the north of the Umara savannah. There they remained for several generations, until the bickering chieftains were eventually rallied under warlord vazahai, who led the clan during the first yahazeer war. This war was instigated by the taurash in response to increasingly impudent raids, and ended in a peace treaty which left umara in the state of repressed hostility it is in at the start of the game.
###Background: The Setting
At the start of the game, the factions of Umara are in an uneasy truce which has been exacerbated by a spreading famine. Relations between the independent human tribes and the conquering Taurash have grown cold since the end of the Yahazeer War. The rising generations in the Khurikash and Taurash are eager for bloodshed without understanding the reason for the treaty. The wiser leaders of the taurash are unwilling to begin a costly war with no potential return besides the removal of a minor nuisance. Though they do not doubt their victory, a prolonged war would leave them vulnerable to their rivals outside the savannah. The Khurikash bitterly resent the destitution and humiliation inflicted by the taurash, but lack the military might to reclaim their lands by force. Unwilling to admit defeat, and facing possible starvation, the Khurikash have returned to their pre-yahazeer tactics, executing numerous minor raids throughout the surrounding lands. The Clan's ability to operate through stealth has grown immensely since its absorption of the Skarzaki. This nomadic, supposedly non-aggressive, scavenger clan was all but wiped out in a surprise raid by the Taurash in an attempt to shut down a smuggling operation designed to bypass the exorbitant taurash customs on the Kangul river. The survivors were welcomed into the khurikash clan and given sanctuary, in exchange for which the skarzaki now provide invaluable links to the criminal underworld, and the services of the remaining skarzaki assassins.
###The Actual Game: 
You play as the leader of a small but respected Khurikash warband (or a member thereof, in multiplayer), and are tasked by the council of elders to attack various settlements of strategic importance. As you consult with the chieftains to decide your next target, you will be required to make decisions both strategic and philosophical. Depending on your choices and degree of success, you and your band will advance in rank, while helping to set the course of umara's history. Will you give in to your troops' thirst for revenge, or drive them against the more pressing encroachments of the orcs? Will you strike at the weak and vulnerable humans, or brave the fortresses of the Taurash?
#Thats it.
I could go on, but then no one would bother to play the game (not that anyone would anyway, but still...).
