#The Gnoll Raider Story

###Introduction:
Gnoll Raider is based on one of my Dungeons & Dragons campaigns. 

###Setting:
The story takes place in the Umara region of Kaiya, a continent whose wildlife and geography were heavily inspired by that of northern africa. The majority of Kaiya's civilized inhabitants belong to one of four races: Humans, Zakasi (gnolls), Rakasha (Lion-men), and Kaimori(Kaiya's original inhabitants). Umara is a vast grassland region that lies between the Kaiabul Mountains and the Shabaranu Badlands. Long ago, Umara was the seat of the Kaimori Empire of Azraku, but three centuries previous the Empire was devastated by civil war, finally splitting into the two kingdoms of Ahira and Kanatu. During the Azraku Wars of Succession, Umara and other highly contested regions were depopulated, and subsequently invaded by Zakasi Raider Clans originating in the Kukalu Desert.


###History of the Conflict:


#####The Origin and Exile of the Khurikash

The Khurikash Clan originated as a horde of squabbling raiding parties dwelling in the fertile Umara Savannah, just east of the Shiharana badlands. Like the other clans of the region, they had taken advantage of the Azraku civil war to plunder and occupy lands left behind by once-powerful Kaimori tribes weakened by internecine strife. However, the Umara Plains soon became the object of fierce contention between the Zakasi bandits in the west, a number of indigenous humans in the east, and the Taurash, a Rakasha Pride that emerged suddenly from the south with intentions of seizing the Umara Plains for themselves.

Though the scattered and disunified zakasi had successfully milked the humans, primarily tribes of herders and farmers, of their resources for years, they were not prepared to deal with the likes of the Rakasha and soon found themselves being crushed piecemeal by their more powerful and better unified antagonists. The Taurash had also driven a wedge between the Khurikash and their allies in the Shiharana, and were now driving the clan westward with every battle. It was not until the Khurikash had been pushed onto the edge of the barren and undesirable region known as the dismal wastes that the Rakasha ceased to press the attack and allowed the desperate zakasi to hold them at bay. The beaten zakasi were at that point leaderless, scattered, and in no condition to initiate a counterattack.

#####The Founding of Yahazeer and the Ascension of Vazahai

Since their exile The Zakasi of the dismal waste had been forced to band together on numerous occasions to ensure their survival (though never under a single leader), and already they shared certain strongholds and safehouses that helped foster a sense of community, one of which was a network of bone-filled caves discovered in the Red Mountain, which became known as Yahazeer, the halls of bones. Yet they had never been truly united, and the zakasi continued to roam the wastes in loose bands of scavengers or raiders under the spurious leadership of whoever who was able to attract some followers and enforce some modicum of discipline and coordination.

As time passed, the khurikash clan began to recover from its earlier defeat and occasionally bands of bold or desperate raiders snuck over into human and rakasha lands to pilfer or plunder what they could. Successes against the now somewhat complacent Taurash further emboldened the raiders, and it was not long before the more successful raid leaders had acquired sizable followings and considerable influence over their fellow zakasi. The most famous of these leaders was Vazahai the Exceedingly Clever, an infamous bandit chieftain.

Eventually, the Khurikash raiders grew to be such a nuisance that the rakasha were roused to action. The Taurash decided the time had come to remind the zakasi of their place, and soon afterwards the pride launched an attack on the dismal waste. As the rakasha forces began carving a swath through khurikash territory, wiping out many isolated bandit hideouts along with their scurvy inhabitants, the foremost of the remaining chieftains called an emergency meeting and hastily elected Vazahai to the rank of Warchief and head of the clan council. The newly created Warchief rose to the occasion and ordered his chieftains to consolidate their forces at Yahazeer, which was hastily fortified while a number of scavengers harried, distracted, and finally lured the Rakasha to yahazeer, where the bandit chiefs prepared to make their final stand.

The battle of Yahazeer was vicious and horrifically bloody. Neither side considered surrender to be an option, even though combatants on both sides continued to be massacred at a sickening pace while engaged in stiflingly tight quarters. While the rakasha were far better trained and equipped, the Zakasi, under Vazahai’s leadership, deftly exploited their superior positioning and knowledge of the local terrain. The Rakasha, quite understandably, sorely underestimated their adversaries. Having been long accustomed to fighting cowardly, uncoordinated mobs of thieves and scavengers, invariably ready to break or surrender soon after the initial charge, they were now fighting against cornered, desperate, warriors led by the most skilled strategists to emerge from the dismal wastes thus far, on their home ground and the battlefield of their choosing, where neither surrender nor flight was possible. Thus the Rakasha continued to press the assault rather than lay siege to the fortress, despite suffering heavy casualties without ever gaining more than the front gate, and the severe tactical disadvantage presented by the cliffside fortress. This proved to be a grave mistake, and the result was that, after a terrific slaughter, the rakasha invaders were handed their first crushing defeat, while the zakasi won a heroic victory against overwhelming odds.

The conflict between the Khurikash clan and the Taurash pride was far from over, but the Battle of Yahazeer marked a turning point in a long series of defeats, and granted the Khurikash clan a renewed sense of hope and unity. Though the zakasi of the dismal wastes were already bound together by common ancestry and geographical location, the Zakasi of the Khurikash Clan look back to the victory of Yahazeer as the clan’s birth, and as the origin of its existing leadership. Vazahai continued to rule as the clan’s warchief until his treacherous murder during the first war with the Taurash.

#####The First Yahazeer War

After their humiliating defeat at Yahazeer, which had itself been preceded by a number of annoying thefts and trespassings, the Taurash Pride decided that the Khurikash Zakasi had been allowed to live for too long. Though the dismal wastes were hardly a prize, it was now clear that the zakasi were more dangerous than they had at first appeared. The human tribes had long hoped to make an alliance with the Taurash against the zakasi, but the Rakasha had till that time laughed at these offers. Both the humans and the zakasi were easy prey, they had thought, and in time both would be enslaved or driven out as the Pride’s power waxed. Warasha, King of the Taurash, decreed that the Khurikash clan must be destroyed or driven out of the Pride’s territory once and for all. The small, punitive expedition sent to teach a lesson to the upstart clan had failed, but this had been due to extreme overconfidence rather than weakness or the enemy’s martial prowess.

After the treacherous assassination of Vazahai, the Khurikash chieftains found themselves faced with a terrible dilemma. The loss of the clan's hero had already crippled morale at all levels, at a time when it was already running low. Of the remaining chieftains, including the newly promoted Kakirak, not one could command the respect or trust of the others, and after an emergency meeting, it was decided that ultimate authority would fall to the clan council until a consensus could be reached on the matter of succession. While this outcome was favourable to the future ambitions of the individual chieftains, it resulted in a serious breakdown in coordination amongst the various factions of the clan. Besides this, the recent outbreak of plague and the shortage of supplies had sapped the vigor of the khurikash troops. With these things in mind, it was clear to the Khurikash Council that henceforth the Zakasi would be at a severe disadvantage, and after a few minor engagements, the council sent envoys to King Warasha proposing a truce. The Taurash had also been hit hard by plague and famine, and many of the rakasha had grown tired and frustrated by the seeming futility of their efforts. All the initial fervor of battle and excitement at the prospects of teaching a lesson to the mobs of cowering scavengers had been dissipated by years of attrition in the dismal wastes while being perpetually harried by tiny bands of zakasi guerrillas, all to gain a patch of worthless desert, while losing several valuable regions in humiliating fashion. Knowing this, Warasha readily agreed to meet with the zakasi leadership at Blackspire, a massive ruin of a tower built by the Azraku Empire in a bygone age.

At Blackspire, it was decided that the Khurikash would hand over the lands north of the Kahngul and east of Blackspire, and the Khurikash would be granted the lands captured by the Taurash after the beginning of the war, while the plains between the dismal wastes and Blackspire were considered neutral. The Khurikash were forbidden to carry arms or hunt game in Neutral territory, and were forbidden from entering Taurash dominions without a written permission. In addition, the Khurikash agreed not to form alliances with the Pride's rivals in the Khiriaku or with factions at war with the taurash. These terms were largely imposed on the Zakasi, who, though having won many battles, were in a far worse bargaining position than their adversaries. In practical terms, the Khurikash were denied access to the main waterways of the kahngul the zakasi would be forced to pay tolls to the Taurash for all goods shipped in this way, and would be forced to continue to live on the worst territories in the region. However, in the end, the treaty was accepted as an alternative to total annihilation

###The Story
It has now been five years since the First Yahazeer War, and though an uneasy peace exists between the Khurikash and the Taurash, skirmishes on the borders of Zakasi, Rakasha, and Human lands are common. Despite the poor region, Yahazeer has grown into a sizable city. Though the taurash had hoped to cripple them by denying them agricultural resources, the Zakasi have found ways of circumventing this obstacle, mostly by poaching and raiding. However, the true power of the Khurikash lies in their connections to the Kingdoms of Ingaru and Ahira, as well as the sovereign tribes of the Kaiabul Mountains, all of which have an interest in the Umara region and control of the Kahngul River. The cunning Zakasi have established their city as a well known trading center, and Khurikash smugglers who know how to get cargo past the exorbitant Taurash river customs have helped to esnure that the clan has many allies. However, as tensions in Umara rise, the Khurikash Chieftains are themselves divided, and since the death of Vazahai no one has dared to claim the title of Warchief. Conspiracies have begun to flourish both in the subterranean passageways of Yahazeer and the crowded streets of Tau'rajna, and even within the clan there are those whose interests lie elsewhere. 
A shadow has fallen over the sunlit savannahs of Umara, and in the darkness, forces move unseen, threatening to engulf the land in a second war more terrible than the first. And in the chaos, one band of zakasi raiders stands to make a fortune so vast as to set them up for all time...

#Gnoll Raider: Get the Money.

